# Investigate TMDB Movies Dataset
Analyzing The Movie Database (TMDb) movies dataset. It contains information about 10,000 movies, including user ratings and revenue.
## Table of Contents
<ul>
<li><a href="#intro">Introduction</a></li>
<li><a href="#wrangling">Data Wrangling</a></li>
<li><a href="#eda">Exploratory Data Analysis</a></li>
<li><a href="#conclusions">Conclusions</a></li>
</ul>

## Introduction
### Overview
>This data set contains information about `10,000` movies collected from `The Movie Database (TMDb)`, including `user ratings` and `revenue`.

### Dataset Description 
>`It consists of 21 columns:` 

- **id:** an identifier of the movie

- **imdb_id:** the imdb identifier of the movie

- **popularity:** the popularity of the movie

- **budget:** the budget in which the movie was made

- **revenue:** the revenue generated by the movie

- **original_title:** the movie title in the original language

- **cast:** the actors who participated in the movie

- **homepage:** a link to the home page of the mavie if available

- **director:** the director of the movie

- **tagline:** the tagline of the movie (a line gives an insight of the mevie theme)

- **keywords:** the keywords related to the movie

- **overview:** a brief description of the movie

- **runtime:** the total running time of the movie in minutes

- **genres:** the genre the movie belongs to (action, comedy, etc..)

- **production_companies:** the producing company of the movie

- **release_date:** the date which the movie first released

- **vote_count:** count of recieved ratings

- **vote_average:** average of recieved ratings

- **release_year:** the year which the movie released

- **budget_adj:** the budget associated movie in terms of 2010 dollars.

- **revenue_adj:** the revenue associated movie in terms of 2010 dollars.
       
>`And about 10,000 record`

### Question(s) for Analysis
- What are the movies with the longest and shortest runtime?
- What are the movies with the least and the most earned revenue, and how aften a movie can fail or succeed?
- What kinds of properties are associated with movies that have high revenues?
- How did the amount of produced films changed over time?
